feat: Blogpost tesla ypp 2023 (#778)
ordina-jworks/ordina-jworks.github.io: _posts/2023-02-06-tesla-ypp-2022-blogpost.md

---
layout: post
authors: [ferre_vangenechten, yanko_buyens]
title: 'Tesla Project @ Ordina'
image: /img/kicks.png
tags: [Spring, Spring Boot, Angular, Unit testing, Mocking, Microservices, Git, DevOps, Docker, TypeScript, Kickstarter, Young Professional Program, Security]
category: Young Professional Programme
comments: true
---

# Introduction

During Ordina's Young Professionals Program of 2022, we worked on this spectacular dev case.
As a software developer, you must integrate different technologies to build a functional and efficient system.
This dev case required us to use various tools and technologies, from Spring Boot to AWS and Helm.
This blog post will share our experience working with these technologies (Spring Boot, Terraform, Google Assistant, GitHub Actions, etc.) to build a scalable and reliable system that meets the project's requirements.

> In addition, we discussed the main problems we encountered during the dev case and how we overcame them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, we will discuss the main problems we encountered during the dev case and how we overcame them.
```

## Our objective

Our mission? Develop two distinct applications harnessing the prowess of Tesla Cars.

**Application One: Tesla Rock-Paper-Scissors Duel**

Imagine two Teslas engaging in a classic game of Rock-Paper-Scissors. 
This was what our first application sought to achieve. 
Here's how the game was mapped:

- Rock = Lower Windows
- Paper = Flash Lights
- Scissors = Honk Horn

Two dedicated users, each connected to their own Tesla, would choose an action equivalent to a Tesla command. 

> Beyond the sheer fun of it, we envisioned this application as a showstopper at conferences, designed to turn heads and pique curiosity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Beyond the sheer fun of it, we envisioned this application as a hit at conferences, designed to turn heads and pique curiosity.
```

**Application Two: Voice-Controlled Tesla**

> Our second application was a harmonious integration with Google Home.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our second application was an integration with Google Home.
```

The stage is set. 
Players pick their moves, which the system then translates into respective Tesla commands.

### Step 3: Action Time.

The chosen commands spring into action on the Teslas.

# Google Integration

## Step 1: Link Tesla to Google Home

<img src="{{ '/img/2023-02-06-tesla-ypp-2022-blogpost/google-save-credentials.png' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" alt="The user's credentials are saved in the Google Home account" class="image fit" style="margin:0px auto; max-width:70%; height:70%">

Users connect our Tesla Application to their Google Home accounts.

## Step 2: Voice it Out to Google

<img src="{{ '/img/2023-02-06-tesla-ypp-2022-blogpost/google-execute-action.png' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" alt="The user's chosen action is relayed via Google to the Tesla proxy API" class="image fit" style="margin:0px auto; max-width:70%; height:70%">

## Journey and Challenges

This section is about the steps we’ve taken to accomplish our results and some challenges we faced.

Before we started the project, we researched the mobile Tesla App and the corresponding API.

> For this, we made use of an Unofficial [Tesla API Documentation](https://tesla-api.timdorr.com/){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this, we made use of unofficial [Tesla API Documentation](https://tesla-api.timdorr.com/){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"}.
```

A user will first need to authenticate themselves using Cognito before sending requests.

An API Gateway was not necessary but was added for educational purposes.
As a result, we needed to link it to our RPS(Rock-Paper-Scissors)-application via a VPC link to our Network Load Balancer (NLB) next to an Application Load Balancer (ALB) that will be connected to our RPS application.

The RPS application then communicates with our Proxy-API that will (based on the active profile) communicate with one of the Tesla-APIs.

Finally, the key rotation mentioned in the previous section is also included in the diagram.

## GOOGLE HOME ARCHITECTURE

<img src="{{ '/img/2023-02-06-tesla-ypp-2022-blogpost/google-architecture.png' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" alt="It shows every resource used to create the whole google application" class="image fit" style="margin:0px auto; max-width:70%; height:70%">

The applications are deployed on Kubernetes and made accessible through Ingress and Route53.

> The Google box is linked to a Google Home account, which, in turn, is connected to our applications.

Reviewer: What is "the google box"? Google cloud? Google Home?

Reviewer: Google Actions? (from further down)

The Proxy API is communicating with the Tesla APIs

## Used Technologies

The development of our project required the use of a variety of technologies to ensure a successful outcome.
Here's a brief overview of each technology and why it was chosen.

1. AWS: AWS was chosen as the cloud platform for our project because of its scalability, efficiency, and security benefits.
By leveraging the resources offered by AWS, we were able to take advantage of the many benefits of cloud computing.

> 2. Terraform: Terraform is an open-source tool used for infrastructure as code.

Reviewer: "open-source" is currently under debate... Current BSL license is not a standard open-source license.

This tool allowed us to automate the provisioning and management of our infrastructure on AWS, making it easier for us to manage and maintain our infrastructure over time.

> The whole infrastructure will be deployed on Monday in the morning and destroyed on Friday night using a cronjob.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The whole infrastructure will be deployed on Monday morning and destroyed on Friday night using a cronjob.
```

> 3. GitHub + GitHub Actions: GitHub is a version control platform that we used to store and manage our code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. GitHub + GitHub Actions: GitHub is a version control platform that we use to store and manage our code.
```

> GitHub Actions is a continuous integration and deployment (CI/CD) platform that allowed us to automate the build, test, and deployment of our application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GitHub Actions is a continuous integration and deployment (CI/CD) platform that allows us to automate the build, test, and deployment of our application.
```

The CI/CD will run every time a pull request is made.

> This to validate that the application can be build using maven.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It validates that the application can be built using Maven.
```

> Another trigger for the CI/CD to run is when code is pushed to the develop branch.

Reviewer: Explain the workflow more clearly. 
PR created -> trigger
push to develop -> trigger? (what to where?)

4. Java Spring Boot: Java Spring Boot is a framework used for building microservices and web applications.

> In our project, we utilized the power of Java Spring Boot to build the back-end of our application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In our project, we utilized the power of Java Spring Boot to build the back end of our application.
```

Our project consisted of several different microservices, including the RPS proxy, RPS backend, stub Tesla API, Google application, and Tesla authenticator.
Each of these microservices played a crucial role in the functionality and performance of our overall application.

5. Google Actions: Google Actions is a platform for building conversational experiences for Google Assistant.
We used Google Actions to build and integrate conversational interfaces into our application.

> For authenticating our users, google action is linked to our Cognito.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For authenticating our users, Google Actions is linked to our AWS Cognito.
```

> Google actions send different request, like for instance a synchronization, to the webhook of our Google Application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Google actions send different requests, like for instance a synchronization, to the webhook of our Google application.
```

Reviewer: this "google application" is it the microservices in k8s? Or what is it? please explain

6. Docker: Docker is a containerization technology used for deploying and managing applications.
We used Docker to containerize our application, which allowed us to easily deploy and manage our application.

7. Kubernetes + Helm: Kubernetes is a container orchestration platform used for automating the deployment, scaling, and management of containerized applications.
We used Kubernetes to manage our Docker containers and Helm to simplify the deployment and management of our application.

8. Renovate: Renovate is a tool used for automating the updating of dependencies in our application.
We used Renovate to ensure that our dependencies were always up-to-date and secure.
It automatically makes a pull request when a new version of a dependency is found.

> We’ve set a limit at 2 pull requests made by renovate, so that we can maintain a good overview.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We’ve set a limit at 2 pull requests made by Renovate, so that we can maintain a good overview.
```

9. Postman: Postman is a tool used for testing and documenting APIs.
We used Postman to test our APIs, which allowed us to ensure that our APIs were working correctly and that they were easy to use for other developers.

> 10. Gatling: Gatling is a load testing tool used to test the performance of our application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
10. Gatling: Gatling is a load-testing tool used to test the performance of our application.
```

We used Gatling to ensure that our application could handle high volumes of traffic and remain performant under heavy load.

## Final Product

Our final product consists of two applications designed to offer a unique and engaging user experience.

> The first application is a fun and interactive game allowing users to play the classic rock paper scissors with a tesla.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first application is a fun and interactive game allowing users to play the classic rock paper scissors with their Tesla car.
```

The second application is a Google Home app that enables users to control a Tesla car using Google Assistant.
With this application, users
can quickly check their vehicle's temperature and battery level and start and stop charging with just a few simple voice commands.

> Users can connect Google Assistant to their Tesla car quickly and easily, offering a fun solution to manage their vehicle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users can connect Google Assistant to their Tesla car quickly and easily, offering a easy to use way to manage their vehicle.
```

Reviewer 2: The Google Assistant doesn't necessarily make it easier to use.

Reviewer 2: The way to connect is easy, but the Google Assistant doesn't necessarily make the management of the car easier.

## Developer Experience

Developing an application can be complex, especially when dealing with unfamiliar technologies.
Our project encountered several challenges, but our most significant achievement was learning and growing our skills.

Communication was one of the significant challenges we faced during the project.
It could have been more evident who was responsible for which task.
This resulted in duplicated functions and conflicting efforts.
To address this issue, we had to improve our communication and agile working and ensure that all team members were aware of each other's progress.

Deploying a complex application in the cloud can also present several challenges, especially when dealing with unfamiliar platforms like AWS.

> To set up all the necessary resources in AWS, we had to learn how to work with Terraform, which required attending workshops, consulting documentation, and utilizing tutorials to learn the essential skills.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To set up all the necessary resources in AWS, we had to learn how to work with Terraform, which required attending workshops, consulting documentation, and utilizing tutorials to learn this essential skill.
```

Furthermore, deploying the application using Kubernetes proved incredibly challenging, as we needed to gain experience with this technology.
This required us to explore various solutions, test different approaches, and collaborate closely with our team members to overcome this challenge.

In the end, the challenges we faced proved to be valuable lessons.

> We completed our project by improving our communication and acquiring new skills, which took longer than initially thought.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We completed our project by improving our communication and acquiring new skills.
```

1. AWS: AWS was chosen as the cloud platform for our project because of its scalability, efficiency, and security benefits.
By leveraging the resources offered by AWS, we were able to take advantage of the many benefits of cloud computing.

2. Terraform: Terraform is a tool used for infrastructure as code.
This tool allowed us to automate the provisioning and management of our infrastructure on AWS, making it easier for us to manage and maintain our infrastructure over time.
The whole infrastructure will be deployed on Monday morning and destroyed on Friday night using a cronjob.

3. GitHub + GitHub Actions: GitHub is a version control platform that we use to store and manage our code.
GitHub Actions is a continuous integration and deployment (CI/CD) platform that allows us to automate the build, test, and deployment of our application.
The CI/CD will run every time a pull request is created.
It validates that the application can be built using Maven.

> When code changes are pushed directly to the "develop" branch, this action serves as the second trigger for the CI/CD pipeline. In addition to running build and test processes, this trigger also initiates a Terraform deployment to our development environment. This workflow ensures that not only is the code validated but also the underlying infrastructure in the Dev environment is modified or extended as required. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When code changes are pushed directly to the "develop" branch, this action serves as the second trigger for the CI/CD pipeline. In addition to running build and test processes, this trigger also initiates a Terraform deployment to our development environment. This workflow ensures that not only the is code validated but also the underlying infrastructure in the Dev environment is modified or extended as required. 
```
